# Expedition — Domain Knowledge

## The document flow
A shipment moves through three documents, in order:
1. **Packing List** — the anchor. Records *what* shipped: container(s), vessel,
   voyage, route, schedule, customs/quarantine. Everything else links back here.
2. **Expense Note** — vendor costs charged against one Packing List (freight,
   depo, trucking, quarantine…), with Indonesian tax (PPN/PPh). May be flagged
   reimbursable to a customer. *(not enabled in M1)*
3. **Sales Invoice** (ERPNext core) — bills the customer. *(not enabled in M1)*

## Packing List — what the fields mean
- **packing_list_no** — the only mandatory field; unique. The official number of
  the packing list (often from PO/BL/internal numbering).
- **type** (Link → Packing List Type), **shipment_type** (Link → Shipment Type).
- **external_ref** — any external reference number (use for duplicate checks).
- **date / po_date** — document and purchase-order dates.
- **container_size** (Link → Container Size), **no_cargo** — cargo count text.
- **cost_center** (Link → Cost Center).

### Vessel & route
- **vessel** (Link → Vessel), **voyage** (Link → Voyage), **voyage_no** — text.
- **expedition** (Link → Expedition) — the forwarder/shipping line.
- **sandaran** (Link → Sandaran) — berth/mooring point.
- **origin_location / destination_location** (Link → Location).
- **depo_id2 / depo_id3 / depo_id4** (Link → Depo) — container depots in the chain.

### Schedule (Indonesian shipping terms)
- **etd / eta / etb** — Estimated Time of Departure / Arrival / Berthing.
- **storage_date / demurrage_date** — when storage / demurrage charges start.
- **selesai_bongkar** — unloading finished. **date_to_fac** — sent to factory.

### Customs & quarantine
- **no_karantina / tgl_karantina / jenis_karantina** (Link → Jenis Karantina).
- **contract_no**, **peb_no / peb_date** (export declaration),
  **bl_no / bl_date** (Bill of Lading).

### Items (child table: Packing List Item — per container)
- **container_no**, **seal_no**, **cargo** (Link → Cargo), **cargo_code**,
  **container_size** (Link), **goods_description**, **customer** (Link → CRM
  Organization), **vehicle** (Link → Vehicle), **driver** (Link → Driver),
  **route1/route2/route3** (Link → Route).

## Master resolution
All expedition masters share the same shape: a **code** (the record name, e.g.
`SBY`) and a **title** (display name, e.g. `Surabaya`). `resolve_master` matches
the user's text against both, so users can type either. `disabled` masters are
excluded automatically. If the master list is empty, no match will be found —
tell the user the master needs to be created first.

## Notes
- Dates are Indonesian-style in conversation; store ISO (YYYY-MM-DD).
- Many fields are optional — only fill what the user actually provides. Do not
  pad the draft with guessed values.
